{{Infobox character
|nom=Alice
|apparition=Appears in book 1
|status=Unknown
}}

== Biography ==

Alice is a young girl characterized by curiosity, observation, and a keen mind. When she encounters a crowded tea table where she is told there is no room, she responds with indignation: "There's plenty of room!" and seats herself in a large arm-chair. She approaches unfamiliar situations with a mixture of boldness and caution, as when she watches gardeners painting white roses red and asks them, though "a little timidly," why they undertake such an unusual task.

Alice possesses considerable knowledge drawn from books, particularly about courts of justice. At a trial, she observes with focused attention, correctly identifying the judge by his wig and recognizing the jury box. She takes pride in her understanding, reflecting that few girls of her age grasp the meaning of the word "jurors."

In her interactions with others, Alice demonstrates a reflective disposition. She walks with the Duchess and contemplates the reasons for the woman's shifting moods. She listens attentively to elaborate and absurd stories from the Mock Turtle and Gryphon concerning the Lobster Quadrille, engaging with those around her despite the often bewildering nature of their conversations and games.

Throughout her experiences, Alice maintains an inquiring mind and a capacity for careful observation, though she sometimes expresses uncertainty or timidity in the face of unfamiliar social customs and powerful figures.

== Personality ==

Alice demonstrates assertiveness in some situations and hesitation in others. When told there is no room at a tea party, she responds indignantly, insisting "There's plenty of room!" and seats herself despite being uninvited. Yet she often speaks with caution and deference: she questions gardeners about their work in a timid manner, and when the Mock Turtle asks about her experience with lobsters, she begins one answer but "checked herself hastily, and said 'No, never.'"

She is intellectually curious and observant. The sight of gardeners painting white roses red strikes her as "a very curious thing," prompting her to move closer and ask questions. She takes evident pride in her learning: upon entering a court of justice for the first time, she is pleased to recognize the judge by his wig and the jury box, and she repeats the word "jurors" to herself, proud of knowing its meaning—aware that few girls her age would understand it.

Alice grounds her understanding in reading and prior knowledge. She has read about courts of justice in books, which helps her navigate an unfamiliar legal setting. When with the Duchess, she engages in private reflection about her own future, imagining herself as a duchess and reconsidering how she would manage domestic details. Her internal monologue reveals she tends to reconstruct events and explanations: she supposes the Duchess's earlier aggressive behavior was caused only by pepper.

Her social interactions show both compliance and quiet independence. She accepts the Duchess's affectionate gestures, walking arm-in-arm with her, yet she also maintains her own observations and critical distance. In the courtroom, she manages her impatience by studying the proceedings intently, looking "at everything about her" while waiting for refreshments. She registers the specific details around her—the tarts, the jury writing their names on slates—and processes these experiences through a thoughtful, somewhat formal lens shaped by her reading and earlier expectations.

== Biography ==

Alice is a young girl who navigates a succession of extraordinary and bewildering circumstances. She is inquisitive by nature, observant, and willing to engage with the strange world around her despite its apparent lack of conventional logic.

During an afternoon gathering beneath a tree, Alice joins an uninvited tea party with the March Hare, Hatter, and Dormouse. When the gathered company cries "No room!" upon seeing her arrive, she responds with indignation, declaring "There's plenty of room!" before seating herself in a large arm-chair at one end of the table.

Walking through a garden, Alice discovers three gardeners engaged in painting white roses red. Intrigued by this curious activity, she approaches and asks them timidly why they are undertaking this task. The gardeners explain they mistakenly planted a white rose-tree instead of a red one, and they fear the Queen will have them executed if she discovers their error. They attempt to conceal it through painting.

Alice demonstrates a formal education, having read about courts of justice in books. When she witnesses a trial, she is pleased to recognize its formal elements—she identifies the judge by his great wig and understands the role of the jury, which consists of twelve creatures. She reflects that very few little girls of her age would know the meaning of the word "jurors," suggesting she takes pride in her knowledge of such matters.

Throughout her encounters with various strange individuals—the Duchess, Mock Turtle, Gryphon, and others—Alice exhibits both caution and assertiveness. She speaks carefully, sometimes checking herself before making remarks, yet does not hesitate to voice her observations and questions when circumstances warrant them. Her interactions reveal a capacity for wonder alongside her engagement with the peculiar situations she faces.

== Powers and Skills ==

Alice possesses considerable intellectual capabilities. Well-educated and literate, she has studied accounts of courts of justice in books and acquired knowledge of legal terminology and courtroom procedure. Her learning is notably advanced for her age—as the narrator observes, very few girls of her age would understand such specialized terms. She takes quiet pride in her knowledge, repeating learned words to herself as she masters them.

Alice is keenly observant and analytically minded. She watches situations carefully, notices curious details—such as gardeners painting white roses red—and draws logical conclusions from what she observes. When observing the sleeping Dormouse being used as a cushion, she reflects on the discomfort this would cause, reasoning that since the creature is asleep, it remains unaware. She also makes accurate assessments of others' emotional states, noting when the Duchess appears in a pleasant temperament.

Her curiosity is pronounced and drives her to seek understanding. When witnessing something unusual, she approaches directly to observe it more closely and asks questions to understand what she finds puzzling. Though she modulates her demeanor appropriately—asking timidly when uncertain of her reception—she does not hesitate to inquire or to speak her mind when conviction moves her to do so. She demonstrates social courage by seating herself at a table despite being uninvited and unwelcome, declaring indignantly that "There's plenty of room!"

Alice shows intellectual curiosity extending beyond immediate observation. She contributes to conversations and reflects on abstract concepts, venturing remarks even when addressing uncertain topics. Her approach to learning is active rather than passive—she does not merely possess knowledge acquired from books, but engages with it, connects it to her lived experience, and uses it to make sense of the extraordinary situations she encounters.

== Relationships ==

'''[[Gryphon]]''' — acquaintance. Alice appears to regard the Gryphon as safer company than the Queen.

'''[[White Rabbit]]''' — acquaintance. Alice addresses the White Rabbit with timid respect and deference.

'''[[Cheshire Cat]]''' — acquaintance. Alice seeks guidance from the Cheshire Cat regarding directions and navigation.

'''[[Mock Turtle]]''' — acquaintance. Alice approaches the Mock Turtle despite the creature's evident emotional distress.

'''[[Queen]]''' — adversary. Alice directly contradicts the Queen with unusual boldness and decisiveness.

''Evolution:''
* [[Gryphon]] — Acquaintance (ch.9→ch.11)
* [[Mock Turtle]] — Acquaintance (ch.9→ch.10)
* [[Queen]] — Enemy (ch.8→ch.12)
* [[King]] — Enemy (ch.8→ch.12)
* [[Five]] — Ally (ch.8)
* [[Seven]] — Ally (ch.8)
* [[Two]] — Ally (ch.8)
* [[Dormouse]] — Acquaintance (ch.7→ch.11)
* [[Hatter]] — Friendly rivalry (ch.7)
* [[March Hare]] — Acquaintance (ch.7)
* [[Cheshire Cat]] — Acquaintance (ch.6→ch.8)
* [[Duchess]] — Acquaintance (ch.6)
* [[Footman]] — Acquaintance (ch.6)
* [[Caterpillar]] — Acquaintance (ch.5)
* [[Pigeon]] — Enemy (ch.5)
* [[Bill]] — Enemy (ch.4)
* [[Lory]] — Friendly rivalry (ch.3)
* [[Dodo]] — Acquaintance (ch.3)
* [[White Rabbit]] — Acquaintance (ch.2→ch.8)
* [[Mouse]] — Wary alliance (ch.2→ch.3)
* [[Dinah]] — Friend (ch.1→ch.3)
== Trivia ==

Alice's curiosity is evident in her interactions throughout her journey. Upon discovering gardeners painting white roses red, she found the sight "a very curious thing" and approached them to inquire about their work, asking "a little timidly" why they were engaged in the task.

Alice is intellectually inclined, having read about courts of justice in books before ever attending one. She took considerable pride in understanding legal terminology; when learning the word "jurors," she repeated it several times, pleased with herself for knowing its meaning—a fact she believed distinguished her from other girls her age.

Though generally thoughtful and observant, Alice demonstrates varying degrees of assertiveness. When the March Hare and Hatter declared "No room!" at their tea party, she responded "indignantly," insisting "There's plenty of room!" and seating herself firmly. However, her manner toward authority figures is more cautious; she spoke to the gardeners "a little timidly" and reflected carefully before speaking.

Alice exhibits a reflective nature in her observations. She noted that the Duchess's earlier savage behavior might have been caused by pepper, and she mused upon the nature of morals and moral lessons. At the royal trial, she examined everything around her carefully and noted her hunger upon seeing a large dish of tarts.

When discussing her experiences, Alice is honest about her limited exposure to certain things. She claimed never to have lived under the sea and to have never been introduced to a lobster. When tempted to claim she had tasted lobster, she "checked herself hastily" and said "No, never"—suggesting both self-awareness and commitment to truthfulness.

== References ==

- Alice's Adventures in Wonderland

[[Category:Characters]]
[[Category:Main Characters]]
[[Category:Personnages du Tome 1]]