{{Infobox character
|nom=Cheshire Cat
|alias=Cat
|apparition=Appears in book 1
|status=Unknown
}}

== Biography ==

The Cheshire Cat is a creature with an unusual and striking appearance. Known by the epithet "Cheshire" and also referred to simply as "the Cat," it possesses distinctive features that set it apart from ordinary inhabitants. It has very long claws and a great many teeth, characteristics that give it a formidable aspect. Despite these threatening features, Alice observes that it appears good-natured in manner.

The Cat demonstrates a philosophical temperament in its interactions. When Alice inquires which direction she ought to travel, the Cat responds with logical precision: "That depends a good deal on where you want to get to." This pragmatic observation suggests a thoughtful nature. Alice regards the Cat as valued company for conversation in her journey through unfamiliar surroundings.

One of the Cat's most extraordinary qualities is its unusual manner of appearance. Rather than presenting itself entirely at once, it often materializes gradually, initially appearing as merely a grin in the air. As the manifestation continues, its mouth becomes substantial enough for it to speak. This otherworldly characteristic distinguishes the Cat from conventional creatures.

The Cat is a figure of considerable notoriety within the kingdom. On at least one occasion, a large crowd gathered around it, including the executioner, the King, and the Queen, all engaged in some form of disagreement. The King himself registers strong disapproval of the Cat's appearance, though the exact nature of the dispute remains unclear from available accounts.

== Personality ==

The Cheshire Cat is a creature of paradox. Alice initially identifies it by its grin alone—a curious appearance in the air that resolves into the rest of the animal. The Cat engages readily in conversation and appears to regard Alice as a friend, speaking with her comfortably and engaging in philosophical discussion.

Physically, the Cat possesses long claws and a great many teeth, characteristics that inspire caution despite Alice's sense that it appears good-natured. This combination of seemingly friendly demeanor and formidable physical traits creates an ambiguous presence.

In conversation, the Cat demonstrates wit and pragmatism. When asked which way one ought to go, it responds by noting that the answer depends greatly on where one wishes to reach. This response is characteristic of the Cat's style—neither fully forthcoming nor entirely evasive, but rather conditional on context.

At court, the Cat draws considerable attention and provokes strong reactions. The King expresses disapproval of its appearance, yet Alice introduces it as her friend. The Cat becomes the center of a dispute involving the King, the Queen, and the executioner, drawing such notice that when Alice appears, all three appeal to her to settle the question, though their simultaneous arguments render the matter unclear.

== Appearance ==

The Cheshire Cat is distinguished above all by its constant, wide grin. When first encountered by Alice, it manifested as this grin suspended in the air—a curious appearance that puzzled her at first, until she identified it as belonging to the creature. The Cat possesses very long claws and a great many teeth. Despite these formidable features, the creature presented an overall good-natured aspect, though Alice recognized that the abundance of teeth and claws demanded respect and caution.

The Cat demonstrates a remarkable ability to materialize partially, appearing initially as only a grin in the air before gradually assuming full physical form. This capacity to appear in fragmentary fashion is distinctive and peculiar to the creature.

== Powers ==

The Cheshire Cat is capable of speech and philosophical discourse. When Alice asked which direction she should take from her current location, the Cat responded thoughtfully: "That depends a good deal on where you want to get to." This demonstrates not merely the ability to speak, but to engage in meaningful exchange and offer considered perspective on choices and their consequences.

The creature's appearance is distinctive and striking. Its most notable feature is its famous grin, which Alice initially perceived as "a curious appearance in the air" that gradually resolved into recognition of a smile. This grin is significant enough that it defines the Cat's identity—Alice immediately identified the creature by this singular feature.

Physically, the Cat possesses threatening attributes that demand respect. It has very long claws and a great many teeth, features that create an impression of danger. Yet despite these intimidating characteristics, Alice found the Cat's overall demeanor to be good-natured. This combination of menacing physical form with apparent gentleness creates an ambiguous presence.

The Cat's form is compact and manageable. When Alice wished to continue conversation with her new acquaintance, she was able to carry the creature by tucking it under her arm. This portability, combined with its engaging manner and philosophical disposition, allowed the Cat to attract significant attention—including from the King, Queen, and executioner of the realm, who became involved in a notable dispute concerning the creature's presence.

== Relationships ==

'''[[Alice]]''' — acquaintance. Alice appears to regard the Cheshire Cat favorably, describing it as "a friend of mine" and seeking its company for conversation and guidance.

'''[[King]]''' — enemy. The King seems to view the Cheshire Cat with disdain, remarking "I don't like the look of it at all" and becoming embroiled in disputes concerning the creature's presence.

''Evolution:''
* [[King]] — Enemy (ch.8)
* [[Alice]] — Acquaintance (ch.6→ch.8)
== Trivia ==

The Cheshire Cat's distinctive manner of manifestation—its grin appearing before its physical form becomes complete—makes it a notable presence in Wonderland. The creature stands as a point of contention between Alice and the King: while Alice maintains her affection for it, the King's judgment of its appearance remains decidedly unfavorable.

== References ==

- Alice's Adventures in Wonderland

[[Category:Characters]]
[[Category:Main Characters]]
[[Category:Personnages du Tome 1]]