{{Infobox character
|nom=Dinah
|apparition=Appears in book 1
|status=Unknown
}}

== Biography ==

Dinah is a cat belonging to Alice. She is characterized as a quiet and gentle creature, remarkably soft to the touch. Dinah spends her time by the fire, purring contentedly while grooming herself—licking her paws and washing her face with meticulous care. She is notably skilled at catching mice, a talent of which Alice is particularly proud.

As part of her daily care, Dinah receives a saucer of milk at tea-time. Alice is deeply attached to her pet and misses Dinah greatly during her time away. Alice speaks readily and enthusiastically about Dinah to others, even those unfamiliar with her. In her dreams, Alice imagines conversations with Dinah and contemplates whether her cat has ever eaten a bat. Alice trusts in Dinah's abilities and believes she could rely on the cat to retrieve things if needed.

== Personality ==

Dinah is characterized as a "dear quiet thing," suggesting a calm and serene temperament. Her quiet nature does not diminish her significance to Alice; rather, it appears to make her valued as a gentle companion.

Her affectionate nature is evident in her domestic behaviors. She spends time by the fire, licking her paws and washing her face, demonstrating grooming habits and contentment. She is described as "such a nice soft thing to nurse," indicating she welcomes close contact and provides comfort.

Beneath her gentle exterior lies a skilled hunter. Alice emphasizes that Dinah is "a capital one for catching mice," suggesting both competence and reliability. This contrast between her calm demeanor and her effectiveness as a mouser indicates a composed but capable predator.

== Appearance ==

Dinah is a cat of pleasant and soft appearance. She is typically found sitting contentedly by a fire, engaged in the systematic grooming of herself, with her demeanor one of quiet composure.

== Powers and skills ==

Dinah is a domestic cat belonging to Alice's household. She possesses no magical powers, but is distinguished by her practical abilities and gentle temperament.

Dinah is particularly skilled at catching mice, a talent that Alice regards highly. Alice describes her as "a capital one for catching mice," suggesting this hunting prowess is her most notable quality.

As a cat, Dinah maintains herself through regular grooming, licking her paws and washing her face. She is known for her soft purring while resting by the fire. Alice describes her as "a dear quiet thing" and "a nice soft thing to nurse," indicating a gentle and affectionate nature.

Alice holds Dinah in high regard and expresses confidence in her capabilities, believing that Dinah would be effective at retrieving lost objects if needed. While separated in Wonderland, Alice frequently wishes for Dinah's company and speaks of her with pride to others, hoping they would come to appreciate feline companionship as much as she does.

== Relationships ==

'''[[Alice]]''' — friend. Alice expresses strong attachment to Dinah, frequently wishing her pet were with her and confident that Dinah would be capable and helpful. She speaks of Dinah warmly to others, describing her as "a dear quiet thing" and "such a capital one for catching mice."

'''[[Mouse]]''' — enemy. The Mouse's family harbors deep contempt for cats, describing them as "nasty, low, vulgar things," suggesting inherent tension between the species.

''Evolution:''
* [[Mouse]] — Enemy (ch.2)
* [[Alice]] — Friend (ch.1→ch.3)
== Trivia ==

- Dinah receives a saucer of milk at tea-time as part of Alice's household routine.
- Alice describes her as "a dear quiet thing," noting her habit of sitting by the fire, purring contentedly while licking her paws and washing her face.
- She is distinguished by her exceptional skill in catching mice.
- Alice once dreamed of asking Dinah whether the cat had ever eaten a bat.
- Alice held confidence in Dinah's ability to retrieve lost items, believing she would "soon fetch it back."
- Alice held concerns about whether Dinah would be permitted to remain in the household if the cat were to begin ordering people about, suggesting her appreciation for Dinah's well-behaved nature.

== References ==

- Alice's Adventures in Wonderland

[[Category:Characters]]
[[Category:Main Characters]]
[[Category:Personnages du Tome 1]]