{{Infobox character
|nom=Dormouse
|apparition=Appears in book 1
|status=Unknown
}}

== Biography ==

Dormouse is a guest at the mad tea party held beneath a tree in front of a house. He sits between the March Hare and the Hatter, remaining asleep throughout most of the gathering. The other guests use him as a cushion, resting their elbows upon him while conversing. Despite his somnolent state, he occasionally speaks, muttering absurd logical statements that echo the paradoxical arguments of the March Hare.

Dormouse later appears at the trial of the Knave of Hearts, where he stands alongside the March Hare and the Hatter. When questioned about a date, he provides the answer "Sixteenth," which conflicts with the responses of the other two guests. When Alice, having grown to a larger size, sits beside him at the trial, Dormouse complains of the crowding, remarking that he can hardly breathe.

== Relationships ==

'''[[Alice]]''' — acquaintance. The Dormouse encounters Alice at the trial, where they sit adjacent to each other.

'''[[Hatter]]''' — acquaintance. The Hatter uses the Dormouse as a cushion during the tea party and later appears alongside it at the trial.

'''[[March Hare]]''' — acquaintance. The March Hare similarly uses the Dormouse as a cushion during the tea party.

'''[[Queen]]''' — enemy. The Queen appears to regard the Dormouse with hostility, responding to its singing with the declaration "He's murdering the time! Off with his head!"

''Evolution:''
* [[Queen]] — Enemy (ch.11)
* [[Alice]] — Acquaintance (ch.7→ch.11)
* [[Hatter]] — Acquaintance (ch.7→ch.11)
* [[March Hare]] — Acquaintance (ch.7→ch.11)
== References ==

- Alice's Adventures in Wonderland

[[Category:Characters]]
[[Category:Secondary Characters]]
[[Category:Personnages du Tome 1]]