{{Infobox character
|nom=Queen
|alias=The Queen
|apparition=Appears in book 1
|status=Unknown
|titles=Queen
}}

== Biography ==

The Queen is a ruler of supreme authority who sits upon a throne alongside the King, her position commanding immediate obedience from all subjects in her realm. She is renowned for a volatile and explosive temperament, characterized by sudden violent outbursts and the casual pronouncement of death sentences. During a croquet game, her fury becomes particularly apparent: she stamps about the ground while repeatedly shouting "Off with his head!" or "Off with her head!" with such relentless frequency—approximately once per minute—that observers struggle to determine whether these pronouncements represent genuine threats or merely habitual utterances within her domain.

Her approach to authority is severe and contemptuous toward those who serve her. She addresses her subordinates with harsh judgment, calling the Knave of Hearts an "Idiot!" when she finds his response insufficient, and she issues commands that are obeyed without question or hesitation. Her participation in games and entertainments reveals little regard for fair play or established rules; she plays as she governs—forcefully and without constraint. Her hedgehog serves as a game piece in her croquet, subject to her will like all things in her realm.

Her voice, described as shrill, becomes particularly memorable when she issues her frequent orders for execution. Alice recalls this vocal quality distinctly, remembering the "shrill voice of the Queen ordering off her unfortunate guests to execution." The casual manner in which she pronounces such severe sentences—often in response to minor infractions, perceived disrespect, or poor sportsmanship—establishes her as a figure of both formidable authority and dangerous, unpredictable violence.

Despite the frequency with which she threatens death, her realm continues to function with inhabitants who remain within it, suggesting that her subjects have grown accustomed to living under constant threat of execution. The terror she inspires is evident in how others perceive her: those around her recognize that her favor is precarious and that her wrath may turn upon them at any moment.

== Personality ==

The Queen is known for her volatile and imperious temperament. She responds to perceived offenses with extreme anger and immediate demands for execution. When the Hatter performs music that displeases her during a tea party, she "jumped up and bawled out, 'He's murdering the time! Off with his head!'" During a croquet game that devolves into chaos, with players quarreling and fighting over hedgehogs, "the Queen was in a furious passion, and went stamping about, and shouting 'Off with his head!' or 'Off with her head!' about once in a minute."

She maintains absolute authority within her realm. Her voice is described as "shrill" as she is heard "ordering off her unfortunate guests to execution," suggesting that threats of capital punishment are a recurring feature of her rule. When addressing those who displease her, she is dismissive and scathing—she calls displeasing individuals "Idiot" and demands answers with severity. She holds command over subordinates such as the Knave, who obey her directions without resistance.

The Queen's willingness to order executions for trivial matters or disputes reveals her paramount concern with control and absolute compliance. Her reactions to any form of insubordination, disorder, or disruption are swift and extreme. This pattern of behavior suggests that maintaining unquestioned authority is the governing principle of her rule, and she tolerates no deviation from her will.

== Appearance ==

The Queen possesses a notably shrill voice, through which she issues her commands and threats.

== Powers ==

The Queen exercises absolute authority within her domain. She possesses the right to order executions, and these pronouncements are carried out by subordinates at her bidding. Her primary instrument of power is the declaration "Off with his head!" or "Off with her head!"—a command that appears reflexive when anyone or anything displeases her. This authority over life and death is exercised with alarming frequency, making her one of the most feared figures in her realm.

Her distinctive abilities are rooted in command presence and vocal authority. The Queen possesses a notably shrill voice capable of cutting through noise and confusion to command immediate attention. She employs repeated, forceful speech as her tool—shouting the same orders in rapid succession until her will is acknowledged. This relentless vocal assertion ensures that her commands dominate every setting.

The Queen presides over games and court proceedings in her realm. She issues commands and pronouncements that those in her presence are expected to obey. Her authority extends from casual diversions to matters of gravest consequence, appearing absolute and unquestioned by those within her circle.

The Queen's most effective power is her volatile and unpredictable temperament, which serves as an instrument of dominance. When displeased—which occurs with startling frequency—she enters a furious passion, stamping about and issuing violent tirades. Those in her presence remain perpetually uncertain of her mood, ensuring cautious, obedient behavior. Her reactions are swift and severe, making her a fearsome authority who maintains control through the constant threat of harsh punishment.

== Relationships ==

'''[[King]]''' — family. The Queen appears to rule alongside her King as his partner on the throne.

'''[[Alice]]''' — enemy. The Queen seems to regard Alice with suspicion and hostility. When Alice openly defies her with a loud declaration of "Nonsense!", the Queen falls silent, suggesting Alice's direct challenge affects her.

'''[[Duchess]]''' — enemy. The Queen appears to have imprisoned the Duchess, commanding the executioner: "She's in prison."

'''[[Knave]]''' — employment. The Knave appears to serve under the Queen's direct command. When she instructs him to "Turn them over!", he complies immediately and carefully.

''Evolution:''
* [[Bill]] — Enemy (ch.12)
* [[Dormouse]] — Enemy (ch.11)
* [[Hatter]] — Enemy (ch.11)
* [[Gryphon]] — Employment (ch.9)
* [[King]] — Family (ch.8→ch.12)
* [[Alice]] — Enemy (ch.8→ch.12)
* [[Duchess]] — Enemy (ch.8→ch.9)
* [[Knave]] — Employment (ch.8→ch.11)
* [[Five]] — Enemy (ch.8)
* [[Seven]] — Enemy (ch.8)
* [[Two]] — Enemy (ch.8)
* [[Footman]] — Employment (ch.6)
== Trivia ==

- The Queen possesses a distinctively shrill voice.
- She maintains a standing executioner to carry out her orders.
- During a game of croquet, she ordered executions at approximately one-minute intervals during her fury.
- She demanded the Hatter's execution for singing, stating he was "murdering the time."

== References ==

- Alice's Adventures in Wonderland

[[Category:Characters]]
[[Category:Main Characters]]
[[Category:Personnages du Tome 1]]